
--- PAGE 1 ---
June 2022
Module 2: Intelligent Data Driven Applications on 
the Cloud – FINAL PROJECT
INTELLIGENT DA TA DEVELOPMENT , JUNE 2026


--- PAGE 2 ---
FINAL PROJECT - DEPLOYING A FORECASTING MODEL FOR GLOVO
2
• Team: Groups of 2 students. Groups of 3 allowed only by exception.
• Due date: 28th of June
• Evaluation: The final project represents 60% of the module grade. The four project deliverables are equally weighted within the final
project.
• Project repository: https://github.com/javiermas/bse -ts-public
• AI policy: AI allowed with disclosure, validation, and shared prompt history.
Project: The goal of the project is to deploy an AWS cloud solution that trains a model and generates predictions of orders using Glovo data.
Deliverables:
• Code
• In any format, as long as it runs in the cloud. You may use any cloud-based compute environment of your choice.
• Video (max 10 minutes)
• A walkthrough of your code and cloud setup. Ideally, you run the code on the cloud and generate an output file in the video. If your
job takes longer than 10 minutes, you don’t need to show the entire process—use caching where helpful. For recording the video,
you may use any tool if you can share a link or file. If your tool limits video length, you can submit two clips.
• Predictions – A .csv file with out-of-sample predictions (format described below), stored in S3
• Prod deployment considerations
• Section (PDF – max 5 pages) describing concepts thought in this part of the course: Define team(s) and their roles, interactions
and ways of working. Define rough estimates for each part/ feature of the project and how these estimates were agreed. Define the
architecture components of the end-to-end solution. Define data used and data flows (i.e. how data travels from the
Storage/Database to your “forecasting tool” and connects to a visualization tool). Describe and argument environments to be used.
Describe how the build and monitor of the ML Model will happen. Describe how the end-users will use your solution (visualization
tool, interactive platform, etc.). Describe success KPIs.

--- PAGE 3 ---
FINAL PROJECT - DEPLOYING A FORECASTING MODEL FOR GLOVO CNT
3
Business requirements
You’ve just joined Glovo. The company uses a slot-based system, dividing each day into 24 hourly slots per city. For efficient operations,
Glovo needs to predict the optimal number of couriers required in each slot. Overestimating leads to idle couriers and wasted resources;
underestimating causes delivery delays.
Currently, Operations manually determines these numbers based on past demand, but as Glovo expands, this manual process no longer
scales. Your task is to help automate it by forecasting hourly order volumes.
To simplify, we’ll focus on one city only. Every Sunday at 23:59, your model should forecast the number of orders expected in each
hourly slot for the upcoming week (from Monday 00:00 to Sunday 23:00, inclusive). You may use all data up to and including the current
week to generate your forecast.
EDA
• The data is under data/train_data.csv. Explore the data, visualize it. Look for trends, cycles and seasonality. Also, can you find any
outliers? How does your EDA inform your modelling?
Modelling
• Try different models. Validate each model in a way that would imitate the real problem (every Sunday you forecast all next week). Watch
out for data leakage. Evaluate each model on MSE and SMAPE. Which one performs better?
Output format
• A .csv file with columns: time (hourly resolution), datetime64[ns] type and preds: float64 type, 24*7 rows (7 days worth of predictions)
Going from 2022-01-24 00:00:00 to 2022-01-30 23:00:00 (both inclusive)
• You can check your output format with the function provided to you in the github repository. There might be some check we’ve missed, so
make sure the output is what you want it to be.

--- PAGE 4 ---
CONNECT TO THE AWS ACCOUNT USING AN IAM USER 
4
Step-by-step:
1. Go to the login link: https://idd-
class.signin.aws.amazon.com/console
2. Log in using the credentials:
• Username: name.surname/ 
name.middlename (or your assigned 
name on the next slide)
• Password: ChangeMeNow_2024!
3. On first login, set a new password you'll 
remember. A password reset screen will 
appear. You will need to add the old 
password provided and add your new one.
You’re now inside your AWS account!


--- PAGE 5 ---
USERS
5
Student Username
Alexander Han Yi alexander-han-yi
Charley Cisse Baker charley-cisse-baker
Corneel Henri L. Moons corneel-henri-l-moons
Dmitrii Kuptsov dmitrii-kuptsov
Elvis Teodoro Casco Alfaro elvis-teodoro-casco-alfaro
Eric Gutierrez Moreno eric-gutierrez-moreno
Erika Yazmín Blanco Félix erika-yazmin-blanco-felix
Gal·la Gelpí Buxadé galla-gelpi-buxade
Gavin Robert Budd gavin-robert-budd
Grace Alden Hotchkiss grace-alden-hotchkiss
Jillian Ann Hunter jillian-ann-hunter
Joshua Ramas Castillo joshua-ramas-castillo
Luis David Batista Tomé luis-david-batista-tome
Maria Victoria Suriel Nuñez maria-victoria-suriel-nunez
Mariajose Argote Corrales mariajose-argote-corrales
Matthieu David Ludovic Hildreth matthieu-david-ludovic-hildreth
Nicolas Aris Koutalakis nicolas-aris-koutalakis
Olsa Berani olsa-berani
Olta Recica olta-recica
Ronnie Kwadwo Obeng-osei ronnie-kwadwo-obeng-osei
Samuel Gerard Fraley samuel-gerard-fraley
Sebastian Dong Uk Paik Sohn sebastian-dong-uk-paik-sohn
Sofia Pirogova sofia-pirogova
Tizian Schenk tizian-schenk
Xiaoyan Wang xiaoyan-wang

--- PAGE 6 ---
USEFUL INFORMATION
6
1. S3 buckets: <name>-<surname>-bucket-idd, i.e. laura-cozma-bucket-idd
1. Please upload test_data_mock.csv and train_data.csv before trying to test the lambda function.
2. Lambda function: 
1. Name: <name>-<surname>-forecasting-lambda
2. Runtime: Python 3.X
3. Execution role: assigned
4. Layers: pandas, skitlearn
